parent	term	definition_source	definition	definition_source	definition_editor	curation_status	example_of_usage	editor_note	curation_status	alternative_term	alternative_term_tag	alternative_term_source
Generically_dependent_continuant	non-realizable information entity	OBI	A non-realizable information entity is a generically dependent continuant which conveys meaning that can be communicated but whose meaning does necessarily imply that some process might follow from that meaning.		Alan Ruttenberg		An essay on the history of the euro. Contrast: A recipe to bake a bread	top level
non-realizable information entity	information content entity	OBI	An information content entity is a non-realizable information entity that "is encoded in" some digital or physical entity.		Chris Stoeckert		Examples of information content entites include journal articles, data, graphical layouts, and graphs.	information_content_entity "is_encoded_in" some digital_entity in obi before split (040907). information_content_entity "is_encoded_in" some physical_document in obi before split (040907).
information content entity	measurement unit	OBI	A measurement unit is an information content entity associated with a physical magnitude that has been conventionally assigned a number.		Cristian Cocos, Chris Stoeckert		Examples of measurement unit are liters, inches, weight per volume.	agree
information content entity	narrative object	OBI	A narrative object is an information content entity that is a set of propositions.		Chris Stoeckert		Examples of narrative objects are reports, journal  articles, and patents submission.	agree - DENRIE. Issue(alan) do we only mean text? What about a story told by mime. Does music count? (no) what about an oral report. Regarding definition, saying it is a set of propositions means we loose the idea that wording matters. Maybe adjust saying a narrative object has some relationshop to a set of propositions
narrative object	report of results	OBI/OED on-line	A report is a narrative object that is a formal statement of the results of an investigation, or of any matter on which definite information is required, made by some person or body instructed or required to do so.		Chris Stoeckert		Examples of reports are gene lists and investigation reports. These are not published (journal) articles but may be included in a journal article.	disagreement about where reports go. alan: only some gene lists are reports. Is a report all the content of some document? The example of usage suggests that a report may be part of  some article. Term needs clarification
report of results	journal article content	OBI/Wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Journal	Journal article content is a narrative object that is the information content encoded in a article published in a serious, scholarly publication, most often peer-reviewed.		Chris Stoeckert, Alan Ruttenberg		Examples of encodings of journal article content are articles published in the journals, Nature and Science. The content can often be cited by reference to a paper based encoding, e.g.  Authors, Title of article, Journal name, date or year of publication, volume and page number.
report of results	investigation results report	OBI	An investigation report is a report on the results of an investigation.		Chris Stoeckert			There's probably a role that it plays. Would this be considered an outcome? (alan)
narrative object	patent content	OBI/ OED on-line	A patent content is a report for the purpose of obtaining a license from a government conferring for a set period the sole right to make, use, or sell some process or invention		Chris Stoeckert			need to distinguish the patent submission (which I think the term refers to) and the patent itself, which is what confers the rights. (Alan) Renamed from patent to patent submission. [Isn't the submission like a recipe, i.e. a realizable information entity, in that it tells you how to do something? no] Cristian: what is the difference b/w some document that has been patented, and the same document that has not been patented? The (informational) content is the same. It is just that the former has been encapsulated within some social mechanism, hence it has acquired some role. Hence "patent" is a role.
non-realizable information entity	gene list	OBI	A gene list is a report of the names or identifiers of genes that are the outcome of an analysis or have been put together for the purpose of an analysis.		Chris Stoeckert		Gene lists may arise from analysis to determine differentially expressed genes, may be collected from the literature for involvement in a particular process or pathway (e.g., inflammation), or may be the input for gene set enrichment analysis.	kind of report. (alan) need to be careful to distinguish from output of a data transformation or calculation. A gene list is a report when it is published as such? Relates to question of whether report is a whole, or whether it can be a part of some other narrative object.
information content entity	datum	OBI	A datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by an instrument.		Chris Stoeckert		Examples of data are the recoding of the weight of a mouse, the recording of an observation of the behavior of the mouse, the recording of the expression level of a gene as measured through the process of microarray experiment. Instance level information is information describing a specific instance of an entity	was measurement. (alan) Is this the old quantitative value? If so need to change cardinal part of stuff. I think the value and units should be on special relations and that the value should not be a BFO entity.
datum	number of lost events computer	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	A number of lost events is a datum recording the the number of measurement events lost due to overloading of the analysis chip in a flow cytometer insturment. The datum has a qualitative role	Josef Spidlen	Kevin Clancy	adjusted based on several sources	0, 125, 787 events lost due to computer busy.	quantity		It seems not right, i.e., the reason should be separate.	$LOST	flow_cytometry_community	FCS3.0 data file standard
datum	number of lost events electronic	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	A number of lost events electronic is a datum measuring the the number of analysis events lost due to errors in data acquisition electronic coincidence in a flow cytometer insturment. The datum has a qualitative role.	Josef Spidlen	Kevin Clancy	adjusted based on several sources	74, 0, 14 events lost due to data acquisition electronic coincidence.	quantity		It seems not right, i.e., the reason should be separate.	$ABRT	flow_cytometry_community	FCS3.0 data file standard
datum	number of particles in subset	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	A number of particles in subset is a datum measuring the the number of subjects in a defined subset in a flow cytometer instrument. The datum has a qualitative role	Josef Spidlen	Kevin Clancy	adjusted based on several sources	500, 200, 0	quantity			$CSnNUM	flow_cytometry_community	FCS3.0 data file standard
datum	parameter threshold	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	A parameter threshold is a datum measuring the minimal signal that must be detected to generate an electrical event, as comparewd to the maximal detected signal in a flow cytometer insturment. The datum has a qualitative role	Josef Spidlen	Kevin Clancy	adjusted based on several sources	0.01, 0.03	quantity			$TR	flow_cytometry_community	FCS3.0 data file standard
datum	ratio of collected to emitted light 	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	A ratio of collected to emitted light is a datum measuring the amount of light collected s compared to the total amount of emitted light in the detector component of a flow cytometer instrument. The datum has a qualitative role	Josef Spidlen	Kevin Clancy, Chris Stoeckert	adjusted based on several sources	10%	quantity			$PnP	flow_cytometry_community	FCS3.0 data file standard
information content entity	number	OBI	A number is an information content entity which provides a magnitude for the result of a measurement.		Chris Stoeckert			Was "value"
information content entity	image	OBI	An image is an information content entity which provides a visual representation of for the result of a measurement.		Allyson, Chris Stoeckert
information content entity	data set	OBI	A data set is an information content entity which is a collection of numerical information that has something in common and is considered to form a unit. definition_source: OBI.		Allyson, Chris Stoeckert
data set	cluster	OBI	A data cluster is a data set which is a subset of data that are a similar to each other in some way.	Josef Spidlen	Allyson, Chris Stoeckert	adjusted based on Wikipedia	Cluster of the lymphocytes population.	generically_dependent_continuants
narrative object	report display element	OBI	A report display element is a narrative object that is part of a report. Report display elements are set off from the textual parts of a report and are typically given a label(e.g. Figure 2) which is used to refer to the element from the text. Typically the 2d layout is part of the identity of such elements.		Allyson Lister, Alan Ruttenberg			There will be some issue here about whether these are defined classes. As intended these are meant to denote the parts of the report that are not textual but are typically boxed and set within the text, labelled with some identifier, and referred to in the text
report display element	report figure	OBI	A report figure is a report display element that has some aspect of illustration, but may be a composite of figures, images, and other elements		Allyson Lister, Alan Ruttenberg			I prepended the "report " to make it clear that we mean parts of reports here. We may want a more generic version of "figure", in which case this would become a defined class - figure and part_of some report
report display element	report table	OBI	A report table is a report display element consisting of a matrix of cells layed out in a grid, some set of which are filled with some information content		Allyson Lister, Alan Ruttenberg
report figure	report graph	OBI	A report graph is a report figure that presents one or more tuples of information my mapping those tuples in to a two dimensional space in a non arbitrary way.		Allyson Lister, Alan Ruttenberg
report graph	contour plot	genericallyDepCont to DENIE flow cytometry reorg	A contour plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of a 3-dimensional surface by plotting constant z slices, called contours, on a 2-dimensional format. That is, given a value for z, lines are drawn for connecting the (x,y) coordinates where that z value occurs.	Maura Gasparetto	Allyson, Chris Stoeckert	http://www.itl.nist.gov/div898/handbook/eda/section3/contour.htm	Contour plot of SSC-H, FSC-H, and FL1-H.	generically_dependent_continuants
report graph	density plot	genericallyDepCont to DENIE flow cytometry reorg	A density plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the tint of a particular pixel corresponds to some kind of function corresponding the the amount of data points relativelly with their distance from the the pixel.	Josef Spidlen	Allyson, Chris Stoeckert	adjusted based on several sources	Density plot of SSC-H and FSC-H.	generically_dependent_continuants
report graph	dot plot	genericallyDepCont to DENIE flow cytometry reorg	A dot plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where each data point is represented by a single dot placed on coordinates corresponding to data point values in particular dimensions.	Josef Spidlen	Allyson, Chris Stoeckert	adjusted based on several sources	Dot plot of SSC-H and FSC-H.	generically_dependent_continuants
generically_dependent_continuant	digital entity	OBI	A digital entity is an information entity which is a collection of bits that can be interpreted by a computer. Two digital entities are the same if they are bitwise identical.		Chris Stoeckert
digital entity	binary executable	OBI	Binary executable is a digital entity consisting of the binary representation of machine instructions of a specific processor or they may be binary pseudocode for a virtual machine. A non-source executable file is also called an object program. It is assumed that the binary executable file contains properly-formatted computer instructions.  (derived from Wikipedia, Nov 1, 2007)		Jennifer Fostel
digital entity	digital document	OBI	A digital document is a digital entity consisting of an electronic file which can be rendered into human-readable form by one or more computational applications.  The digital document does not refer to the information content of the document but to an instance of the file.		Jennifer Fostel
digital document	electronic case report form	CDISCglossary	An electronic case report form is a digital document used to record all of the protocol required information to be reported for each trial subject. An eCRF has the property that it can be audited and compliant with requirements of 21 CFR Part 11.		Jennifer Fostel					eCRF; electronic CRF; 
digital document	electronic case report tabulation	CDISCglossary	An electronic case report tabulation is a digital document containing tabular data about multiple trial participants which is part of a clinical regulatory submission.  An eCRT has the property that it can be audited and compliant with requirements of 21 CFR Part 11  and has format suited to review by regulators.		Jennifer Fostel					eCRT; electronic CRT; 
digital document	eMedical record	CDISCglossary	An eMedical record is a digital document derived from a computer system used primarily for patient care in a clinical setting.  Not required to be compliant with requirements of 21 CFR Part 11.		Jennifer Fostel
digital document	eSource document	CDISCglossary	an eSource document is a digital document consisting of a logical collection of Source data and other eSource documents that can be presented in an ordered way and capture the time of completion, change, and any signatures		Jennifer Fostel
digital entity	format standard	OBI	a format standard is a digital entity that consists of rules applied to information, as opposed to rules applied to objects (which are termed plans)		Jennifer Fostel, Chris Stoeckert
format standard	ACS	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	ACS is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the Analytical Cytometry Standard. (http://www.isac-net.org/content/view/607/150/)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	Community consensus	d06.acs, ACS1.0 data file of well D06 of plate 2 of part 1 of a GvHD experiment.	analytical_cytology_data_file
format standard	Compensation-ML	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	Compensation-ML is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the Compensation-ML standard. (http://wiki.ficcs.org/ficcs/Compensation-ML?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Compensation-ML_v1.0.24.pdf)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	Community consensus	compfoo.xml, Compensation-ML file describing compensation used in a GvHD experiment	XML_file
format standard	FCS	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	FCS is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the Flow Cytometry Data File Standard.(http://www.fcspress.com/)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	Community consensus	d01.fcs, FCS3 data file of well D06 of plate 2 of part 1 of a GvHD experiment.	analytical_cytology_data_file
format standard	Gating-ML	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	Gating-ML is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the Gating-ML standard. (http://www.flowcyt.org/gating/)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	Community consensus	foogate.xml, Gating-ML file describing gates used in a GvHD experiment.	XML_file
format standard	OWL	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	OWL is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the W3C Web Ontology Language specification.(http://www.w3.org/2004/OWL/)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	adjusted based on several sources	OBI ontology file, Basic Formal Ontology file, BIRNLex file, BioPAX file.	XML_file
format standard	RDF	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	RDF is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the W3C Resource Description Framework RDF/XML Syntax specification.(http://www.w3.org/RDF/)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	adjusted based on several sources	A FOAF file, a SKOS file, an OWL file.	XML_file
format standard	tar	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	tar is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the tape archive file format as standardized by POSIX.1-1998, POSIX.1-2001, or any other tar format compliant with the GNU tar specification. (http://www.gnu.org/software/tar/manual/)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	adjusted based on several sources	Example.tar file.	binary_digital_entity
format standard	Transformation-ML	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	Transformation-ML is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the Transformation-ML standard.(http://wiki.ficcs.org/ficcs/Transformation-ML?action=AttachFile&do=get&target=Transformation-ML_v1.0.26.pdf)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	Community consensus	Transformation-ML file describing parameter transformations used in a GvHD experiment.	XML_file
format standard	XML	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	XML is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the W3C Extensible Markup Language Recommendation.(http://www.w3.org/XML/)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	adjusted based on several sources	RDF/XML file, OWL file, Compensation-ML file, WSDL document, SVG document	text_based_digital_entity
format standard	zip	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	zip is a format standard of a digital entity that is conformant with the PKWARE .ZIP file format specification  (http://www.pkware.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=59&Itemid=103/)	Josef Spidlen	Jennifer Fostel	adjusted based on several sources	MagicDraw MDZIP archive, Java JAR file.	binary_digital_entity
information content entity	source code module	OBI	A source code module is an information content entity that specifies, using a programming language, some algorithm. 		Alan Ruttenberg, Chris Stoeckert		The written source code that implements part of an algorithm. Test - if you know that it was written in a specific language, then it can be source code module. We mean here, roughly, the wording of a document such as a perl script.
generically_dependent_continuant	software interpreter	OBI	A  software interpreter is a generically dependent realizable entity that takes, as input, some digital entity, and takes action driven by the information content of that digital entity		Alan Ruttenberg, Chris Stoeckert		R program, Perl interpreter, Java virtual machine	Do we care? Jennifer: Yes, there was a particular version of R that had a bug and it was fixed later. That would imply that we mean specific version of an interpreter. So an instance of this would be a particular version of the interpreter
generically_dependent_continuant	programming language	OBI	A language in which source code is written, intended to executed/run by a software interpreter. Programming languages are ways to write instructions that specify what to do, and sometimes, how to do it. 		Alan Ruttenberg, Chris Stoeckert		R, Perl, Java
information content entity	fluorescence compensation matrix	genericallyDepCont to DENIE flow cytometry reorg	A fluorescence compensation matrix is a square matrix which is used as the left multiplier of the vector of fluorescence values while performing digital fluorescence compensation. Also, fluorescence compensation matrix is the inverse of the fluorescence spillover matrix.	Josef Spidlen	Chris Stoeckert	Community consensus	((1.053096, -0.22476), (-0.24877, 1.053096))	generically_dependent_continuants				operating_system	A set of computer programs that manage the hardware and software resources of a computer.	Josef Spidlen	adjusted based on Wikipedia	uncurated
digital entity	analytical cytology data file	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	A digital entity intended to capture data in analytical cytology domain.	Josef Spidlen	Chris Stoeckert	Community consensus	FCS file, ACS file, foo.fcs, foo.asc	binary_digital_entity
digital entity	binary digital entity	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	A binary digital entity is a digital entity that is encoded in a way that is not easily human readable and that contains other than text characters.	Josef Spidlen	Chris Stoeckert	adjusted based on several sources	MS Word document, ZIP file, DICOM file, JPEG file	digital_entity
digital entity	text based digital entity	DigitalEntity-FlowCytometry-2007-03-30.txt	A text based digital entity is a digital entity that is encoded so that it only contains text characters.	Josef Spidlen	Chris Stoeckert	adjusted based on several sources	XML file, C++ source code file	digital_entity
information content entity	quantitative confidence value	OBI	A quantitative confidence value is a information content entity which is used to indicate the degree of uncertainty about a measurement. 		Chris Stoeckert
quantitative confidence value	p-value	OBI, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P-value, Jan 3, 2007.	A p-value is a quantitative confidence value which represents the probability of obtaining a result at least as extreme as that actually obtained, assuming that the actual value was the result of chance alone.		Chris Stoeckert			ask data transformation. Are they thinking about this too? What is this, in reality. Quality of the measurement? Quality of a population of measurements? Issue: How to avoid having numbers being an easy way to miss connections with reality
quantitative confidence value	standard error	OBI, Dictionary.com http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/standard%20error, Jan 3, 2007.	Standard error is a quantitative confidence value which is the standard deviations of the sample in a frequency distribution, obtained by dividing the standard deviation by the total number of cases in the frequency distribution.		Chris Stoeckert			see P-Value
datum	measured expression level	data transformation branch	A measured expression level is a datum that is the outcome of the quantification of an assay for the activity of a gene, or the number of RNA trancsripts.	Elisabetta Manduchi	Chris Stoeckert		Examples are quantified data from an expression microarray experiment, PCR measurements, etc.
digital entity	list-mode data file	data transformation branch	A list-mode data file is a digital entity where events are stored sequentially, parameter by parameter.		Chris Stoeckert		An example of a list-mode data file is a file following list-mode Flow Cytometry Standard (FCS) format. Since FCS files can be in histogram mode or  list-mode we have to specify which data format specifically. List-mode format in the overwhelming (even universal) option used.	One example of usage is in the context of flow cytometry, however is not restricted to this community and is more widely used, e.g. by imaging people. 
datum	fluorescent reporter intensity	data transformation branch	The fluorescent reproter intensity is a datum that represents the output of a scanner measuring the intensity value for each fluorescent reporter.		Chris Stoeckert			From the DT branch: This term and definition were originally submitted by the community to our branch, but we thought they best fit DENRIE. However we see several issues with this. First of all the name "probe" might not be used in OBI. Instead we have a "reporter" role. Also, albeit the term "probe intensity" is often used in communities such as the microarray one, the name "probe" is ambiguous (some use it to refer to what's on the array, some use it to refer to what's hybed to the array). Furthermore, this concept could possibly be encompassed by combining different OBI terms, such as the roles of analyte, detector and reporter (you need something hybed to a probe on the array to get an intensity) and maybe a more general term for "measuring intensities". We need to find the right balance between what is consistent with OBI and combinations of its terms and what is user-friendly. Finally, note that "intensity" is already in the OBI .owl file and is also in PATO. Why didn't OBI import it from PATO? This might be a problem.		probe intensity
